# R2D2 Priors in brms

Function used to set up R2D2(M2) priors in brms. The function does not
evaluate its arguments – it exists purely to help set up the model.

## Usage

``` r
R2D2(mean_R2 = 0.5, prec_R2 = 2, cons_D2 = 0.5, autoscale = TRUE, main = FALSE)
```

## Arguments

- mean_R2:

  Mean of the Beta prior on the coefficient of determination R^2.

- prec_R2:

  Precision of the Beta prior on the coefficient of determination R^2.

- cons_D2:

  Concentration vector of the Dirichlet prior on the variance
  decomposition parameters. Lower values imply more shrinkage.

- autoscale:

  Logical; indicating whether the R2D2 prior should be scaled using the
  residual standard deviation `sigma` if possible and sensible (defaults
  to `TRUE`). Autoscaling is not applied for distributional parameters
  or when the model does not contain the parameter `sigma`.

- main:

  Logical (defaults to `FALSE`); only relevant if the R2D2 prior spans
  multiple parameter classes. In this case, only arguments given in the
  single instance where `main` is `TRUE` will be used. Arguments given
  in other instances of the prior will be ignored. See the Examples
  section below.

## Details

The prior does not account for scale differences of the terms it is
applied on. Accordingly, please make sure that all these terms have a
comparable scale to ensure that shrinkage is applied properly.

Currently, the following classes support the R2D2(M2) prior: `b`
(overall regression coefficients), `sds` (SDs of smoothing splines),
`sdgp` (SDs of Gaussian processes), `ar` (autoregressive coefficients),
`ma` (moving average coefficients), `sderr` (SD of latent residuals),
`sdcar` (SD of spatial CAR structures), `sd` (SD of varying
coefficients).

When the prior is only applied to parameter class `b`, it is equivalent
to the original R2D2 prior (with Gaussian kernel). When the prior is
also applied to other parameter classes, it is equivalent to the R2D2M2
prior.

Even when the R2D2(M2) prior is applied to multiple parameter classes at
once, the concentration vector (argument `cons_D2`) has to be provided
jointly in the the one instance of the prior where `main = TRUE`. The
order in which the elements of concentration vector correspond to the
classes' coefficients is the same as the order of the classes provided
above.

## References

Zhang, Y. D., Naughton, B. P., Bondell, H. D., & Reich, B. J. (2020).
Bayesian regression using a prior on the model fit: The R2-D2 shrinkage
prior. Journal of the American Statistical Association.
<https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.00046>

Aguilar J. E. & Bürkner P. C. (2022). Intuitive Joint Priors for
Bayesian Linear Multilevel Models: The R2D2M2 prior. ArXiv preprint.
<https://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.07132>

## See also

[`set_prior`](https://paulbuerkner.com/brms/reference/set_prior.md)

## Examples

``` r
set_prior(R2D2(mean_R2 = 0.8, prec_R2 = 10))
#> b ~ R2D2(mean_R2 = 0.8, prec_R2 = 10)

# specify the R2D2 prior across multiple parameter classes
set_prior(R2D2(mean_R2 = 0.8, prec_R2 = 10, main = TRUE), class = "b") +
  set_prior(R2D2(), class = "sd")
#>                                           prior class coef group resp dpar
#>  R2D2(mean_R2 = 0.8, prec_R2 = 10, main = TRUE)     b                     
#>                                          R2D2()    sd                     
#>  nlpar   lb   ub tag source
#>        <NA> <NA>       user
#>        <NA> <NA>       user
```
